---
layout: post
title:  "yves"
author: amelia
date: 2010-06-25 7:30:00
categories: life, letters, words
image: /assets/images/1918.JPG
permalink: yves
---

Recently someone told me something in reference to a little joke I made at my own expense. He said *that happens to most everyone else. Don't let it happen to you.* You see, I had drawn up an alternate plan for my life, as follows: 

A. Work. <br/>
B. Pay off debt and start saving.<br/>
C. Begin licensure.<br/>
D. Get bogged down in the daily run of life and forget dreams. 

You're probably wondering what the real plan is, that being the alternate.

<center>°°°</center>

We don't have bedroom windows that face each other. We've never sat out under the stars talking about where we are going with our lives. We've never been mischievous together. But to me, you are the proverbial boy next door. The boy who tells me things, and who lets me tell him things. The boy whose happiness makes me smile. The boy whose sorrows make me ache. 

I accept this challenge of taking risks, of helping each other reach our dreams and overcome our failures. When we're hitting the age of the midlife crisis, when our graying peers are lamenting over their wasted lives, we'll remind each other of where we'd be without our risks, our failures and our triumphs. We'll keep each other accountable for not being drop-outs or cop-outs, and we'll push each other to continue our adventures. 

<center>°°°</center>


If your friend is smart, she'll keep you around. Most relationships fail anyway; she's lucky to have you for what you aren't. 

<center>°°°</center>


My favorite kind of piano music is when a simple melody is played, repeated and occasionally embellished. It gives the silence between the notes so much unexpected power and passion. There would be no rhythm if not for the silence. It's a lesson I taught every one of my students. Hopefully it's one that will stick with them. 

My first listen to this album I immediately associated with the optimistic quality. It feels promising, reminiscent of those good, sunny days when everything is perfect and you can't help but smile a genuine smile. The second time through it broke me as much as music can. And music can. How did something so joyful an hour before become so intensely sad? It has evened out now, and I am left somewhere between the two but still feeling both extremes. 

<center>°°°</center>

It's morning now. I have been having trouble sleeping lately; I'm back to two or three hours and a nap if I'm lucky. I'm going to take the dog for a long walk and talk to myself about the future.