---
layout: post
title:  "a kansas dialogue"
author: amelia
date: 2013-07-05 9:30:00
categories: friends, macaroni
image: /assets/images/keys.jpg
permalink: dialogue
---

“I can’t sign it!”

“You have to!”

“No, if I sign it I’m going to have to write something all sentimental and gushy.”

“Well, *yeah*.”

“I can’t do that. Here, I’ll just sign my name.”

“Mmmm…”

“Look, I’ll tell you all the sentimental gushy stuff over coffee later. I don’t even know where to sign my name on this. Here it’s autographed and worth absolutely nothing. Now put this book in your bag.”

“And in a few years when you’ve finally made a name for yourself…”

“…and in a few years when I’ve finally made a name for myself you can show this signed book to people and tell them you know me.”

“Except you didn’t write any sentimental gushy stuff. You just signed your name. How will they know I know you?”

“Oh, you’ll tell them you know me. And that’s not all you’ll tell them about me.”

“You know it.”

“And that’s one of the reasons I love you, Amelia. So where do you want to go? You hungry?”

“We should get mac and cheese.”

“Is that what you want? You want mac and cheese? Why do I feel like there’s something you’re not telling me?”

“I’m doing a little mac and cheese experiment.”

“Do you know the funniest thing I always think of when someone says mac and cheese is this one episode of Mystery Science Theater 3000, which I’ve never actually been much a fan of but I’ve seen a little bit here and there. It’s not that it isn’t a good show. I’m sure it’s a great show, but I think it would be a lot better if they used actual decent movies instead of finding terrible movies that are cheap to get the rights to do what they do, but if they used actual big name movies and just, just, you know, just really let them have it? That would be amazing. I would probably watch the show then. But the show as it is doesn’t really strike any sort of chords with me. I’m not saying it’s a bad show; it’s not, I don’t think. I just watch it every now and then and don’t feel any sort of draw to it. It doesn’t resonate with me. Maybe I didn’t put enough effort into it, but I don’t really care for that show. That is my ex-wife, right there, in that minivan over there across the street making a left turn. Do you see her? Funny seeing her here. Anyway, but there was this one episode I happened to see a little bit of several years ago that really made me laugh where it was this old movie called Pumaman, some old comic book movie that was really terrible, I mean really terrible, and I happened to catch a few minutes of it and there was this one scene where there is this guy and this other guy and it’s tribal, some sort of tribal thing, or it’s supposed to be a tribal ritual but one of the guys is wearing a grass skirt and a macaroni necklace and the Mystery Science Theater guys, you hear one of them say, ‘thank you, pasta necklace.’ And I just… I laughed so hard and that was years ago and now I can’t not think of that line every time someone says something about macaroni and cheese or, like, when one of my kids has a macaroni art project at school. I still laugh at that. ‘Thank you, pasta necklace.'”

“Sounds funny.”

“It is. It was funny. It is funny. So you really want mac and cheese? I’ll take you anywhere, just say what and where.”

“Yeah, I’d really like mac and cheese.”

“Okay, well, we’ll go down to Mass Street. I’m sure we’ll find some pasta down there.”

“Great.”

“We want the mac and cheese. We’ll just take the one, we’ll share it, if that’s okay. So you were pretty happy last time we talked, weren’t you?”

“Was I? It’s been a rough year. I’ve had my ups and downs”

“I know. I don’t know. I don’t remember. I feel like you were pretty happy. Didn’t you meet a famous man?”

“Did I?”

“Yeah. You said you did. Didn’t you?”

“Ooooh, yeah! I did meet a famous guy! I forgot about him already. That’s how crazy my life is lately. My life is crazy.”

“Maybe, but you’re not crazy, Amelia. Don’t let anyone tell you otherwise. You’re cool. You’re a solidly cool girl. That’s one of the things I love about you.”

“I am cool. I know, but the last few months I feel like I’ve got all these people playing games with me and treating me like I am crazy. So it’s in my head.”

“I really care about you. You know that? I really care about you. Regardless of what is between us, I want you know that. The problem is, people have seen too many movies. All women are crazy in movies.”

“I don’t deny that. But I’m not crazy.”

“No, you’re not. I don’t think you are. But then, the crazy girls, you never think they’re crazy until they go and do something crazy.”

“So you’re saying that even though you know I’m not crazy, I’m totally the kind of girl that would do something crazy because you’re not expecting it. That’s what crazy girls do. They go and do something crazy when you weren’t expecting it.”

“Well. Yeah. And I don’t think you’re the type of girl to do something crazy, but if you did go and do something crazy, I would have to say, ‘well *that* happened.'”

“Because you wouldn’t expect it from me.”

“Exactly.”

“I wouldn’t do anything crazy.”

“I know you wouldn’t. But if you did…”

“But if I did. I read you. Well, girls can be crazy but men can be assholes. I’m starting to think all of them are , anyway. At least in my experience they all are.”

“Well.”

“They are. In my experience, they are.”

“Yeah, we kind of are.”

“You are.”

“Well, *I’m* an asshole, yes, but you already know that I’m an asshole. We’re clear on that.”

“I do know that, and I already have an expectation for you to be an asshole because I know you’re one. I’m just always hoping there’s some guy out there who isn’t one. Is there a single good guy out there at all? Just one?”

“Uhhh….”

“No?”

“No.”

“But maybe? Just one?”

“Maybe. Maybe there is.”

“Is it possible I’ll find him?”

“It’s possible. Coffee?”

“Yes.”

“You know I’m reading Rob Lowe’s biography and it’s really interesting. You know I met him several years ago and he was this cool guy. Really nice.”

“You’ve met everybody.”

“I have met everybody. So I met Rob Lowe and I’m reading his book and he’s talking about how when he first got famous he thought of himself as this nobody from Ohio but everyone else thought of him as this up and coming pretty boy movie star. And he didn’t see it or feel it at the time. It’s not what he thought of himself. But now, looking back, he realizes that he was a pretty boy up and coming movie star, but he was too lost in his own perception of who he was. You’ll be the same. I’m the same. I look back to certain times in my life and think that way. Wow, you know, I wasn’t what I thought I was. I was this other person instead. And you’ll do it too. Someday you’ll look back to the you you are now and you’ll see what others see, not what you’re feeling right now. Right now you’re stuck up in your head and feeling miserable because of these circumstances in your life. But other people see you, I see you, and we see this gorgeous woman who is strong and confident and funny. I keep telling you this, I’m gushing, I said I would, but I’m doing it because it’s true and you need to know it. You know after the first time we met, I told my brother about you.”

“You told him about me?”

“Yeah, I did. I said to him, ‘this girl is so cool.’ I mean, you’re beautiful, you’re adorable, you’re funny, you’re sexy, you’re smart, you’re fun. There is so much good about you. You give so much good to the people around you. But you did something that day that won me over. I mean, really won me over. I told my brother what you said to me that day.”

“What did I say?”

“You said, just so casually and effortlessly, it was just you, the way you said it, you said ‘So what’s our story?’ and I couldn’t believe you said it like that. Like you just said, *‘so what’s our story?‘* and as soon as you said that I thought, ‘This girl is so cool.'”

“I did say that didn’t I? I forgot about that.”

“You did say that. It was amazing, and it was funny. I liked you instantly.”

“Thanks.”

“You and me? We’re cool. I feel like anything can happen, and we’re just cool.”

“We are cool.”

“I’m cool with more with you, if that’s what you want. You know I would always be cool with more with you. You turn me on. I really like you. I know you’re going through stuff and you aren’t really interested in me and my situation and what I can and can’t offer you. But I’m also cool with it being just like this. Coffee. Mac and cheese. Talking. And I can’t say that about a lot of girls I know. But I can say that about you.”

“I appreciate that.”

“You have so much to offer someone. I want you to find him. I hate that he isn’t here in town. I wish you could be at home here, but this place isn’t you, and you’re not going to find someone here for you. I know you hate being here because it’s difficult and you’ve been pulled away from your life and your desires and your drives to be here. But I’m glad you’re here. I’m selfish when I say that. I would love it if you lived here and we could see each other more often, hang out more often. But more than that I want you to find the person you need to find so you won’t be lonely anymore. And that’s what it is for you. Look, I know you pretty well. And I can say this pretty confidently. You’re not looking for a guy to save you or a guy to make you happy. You know a relationship won’t fix all your problems. You know you won’t find a guy and breathe a sigh of relief and say, 'Now everything is perfect.' You’re just looking for the one so you won’t be lonely. You’re looking for the guy you can share with. Share life. Share fun. Share who you are, and you have so much to share.”

“I’m looking for the guy to come home to.”

“Exactly. But when you are lonely, you need to let your friends help you. You’re like me. You are always there to help other people because you know that sometimes other people need help. I trust that if I were to call you and say to you, ‘I need you to talk to me for an hour so I don’t start crying’ that you would drop everything you are doing and you would talk to me for as long as I need because that’s the kind of person you are. But sometimes you need help too, and you have to let go of the control you have over yourself and your life and let your friends know. Tell them, ‘hey, I’m lonely, could you give me a call sometime to check in on me? Just ask me how my day went?’ Maybe don’t say that to any potential romantic interests, but tell your friends.”

“I am lonely sometimes. A lot of the time. I’ve been alone for a long time. It’s funny how I can get any guy I want, but I’m still the girl who always goes home alone. I don’t want that anymore. I’m tired of being lied to.”

“I hear you. You don’t want to be jerked around.”

“I hate being jerked around. Grow up. Act like an adult. Tell me what you’re feeling, thinking. Don’t tell me one thing and then do another. I hate that.”

“I hate being jerked around too. Hey, you know what? I’m totally okay being on the back burner, being some girl’s second or even third option, but I want to know that. I don’t like it when these flamethrowers say these things to me and I can’t figure out what they’re really trying to say. Don’t jerk me around. Tell me what it is. If it’s over, it’s over. If I’m second option, I’m your second option, but don’t keep me around as a maybe down the road. Anyway, you’re lonely. You’re looking for the one.”

“I am. I’m tired of the games. I mean, I’ve always been looking for ‘the one’, but lately I’m just so tired of being jerked around, like you said, that I don’t even know that I want to keep playing. I want commitment.”

“You might be lonely, but you’re not broken.”

“…”

“I want you to know that you’re not broken. I know broken people; you’re not broken. You’ve been through stuff, difficult stuff, and you’ve had a rotten year, but there is nothing wrong with you. You are not crazy, you’re not broken. You’re incredible, and strong, and you have so much character and personality. You are an amazing friend, and I love hanging out with you. You send me the funniest text messages. When I get a text message from you, it brightens my day. Seriously. I love hearing from you. Just because you’re going through a rough patch doesn’t mean you’re broken. You’re not. And you need to know that because you have to believe in yourself if you’re going to go out there and get what you want. You have a lot to offer someone, but you can’t believe or tell yourself that you’re broken right now. You’re not.”

“Thank you.”

“I mean it. People our age, we realize that they have these things for us when we go through rough times. These ‘support groups’, but those don’t really work for people like you and me. Look, you go to a support group like that and you talk to other people who are also going through shit and you try to compare yourself to them but you’re not like them and they’re not like you. Everyone is going through their own shit. We all go through shit. None of us escapes that. You go to these groups and you realize they’ve got something you and I don’t have. They’ve got jobs. We freelance.”

“I was thinking about getting just, like, a retail job when I head back to Seattle.”

“Exactly. You need something like that. Freelancing during a shitty time is difficult.”

“I need routine.”

“You need stability.”

“I need to show up to some place where they tell me to show up and do what they tell me to do.”

“Exactly.”

“I need to not be in control for a few hours a day.”

“It’s exactly what you need. It’s why I teach. I need to be somewhere, I need to be needed. Freelancing is great. But sometimes we need to have that structure. This is all temporary.”

“What is?”

“What’s in your head. You’ll get through this. You’ll be okay.”

“I know.”

“You are remarkable.”

“I know.”

“You are remarkable.”

“I know.”

“You are remarkable.”

“…”

“You’ll be okay.”

“I know.”

“Amelia, you’ll be okay.”

“I’ll be okay.”

“You want to head back to my place for awhile?”

“Sure.”

“Come on. I’m trying to hug you.”

“Sorry. My heart’s not in it.”

“I know. It’s okay. You know, you can look me in the eyes, it’s okay. You won’t be leading me on.”

“I’m dodgy. Sorry.”

“You are dodgy. I promise. I won’t try anything. You can look me in the eyes. I know our boundaries.”

“No sex.”

“I know. No sex. I heard you. Believe me. I heard you. I respect you. It’s okay to look me in the eyes. You won’t lead me on.”

“I seem to lead everyone on.”

“Maybe.”

“Lead them on. They get what they want. I don’t get what I want.”

“I sincerely hope that the next time I see you you are monogamous and happy even though that means that the next time I see you you’ll be off limits to me.”

“Well I’m off limits to you right now, so it’s not much of a change.”

“True. Well, if nothing else, I’m good for talking too much.”

“I was just thinking it’s nice how you talk so much that it gives my brain a break.”

“Hey, I love you, Amelia. I mean it.”