---
layout: post
title:  "i was a teenage piano teacher"
author: amelia
date: 2013-10-27 9:30:00
categories: teaching, writing
image: /assets/images/keys.jpg
permalink: piano
---

I went to design school. 

*Twice.* 

Do you know what people always ask me? *“Where’d you learn to write?”*

I edit everything I read from menus to Facebook posts. Most people aren’t interested in receiving unsolicited constructive criticism, however, so I suffer their blunders in silence.

As an extension of my interests and abilities, I got a master’s degree
in learning complex, abstract things and researching and writing long, geeky papers. I like to joke that I got my degree in tinkering with design and technology. It’s not a joke, though. It’s remarkably true.

But really, my interest in language and teaching came from my childhood. I was a teenage piano teacher. I had to fight an age bias and find creative ways to earn and keep my students. Music is a language, and I had to generate a language and concepts that my students understood. Each student had a different way of processing information. In the end, I had a low student turnover rate and was pulling in students from more experienced teachers because I figured out how to simplify music into an easy to understand and enjoyable experience.

I found myself at Stoneburner last night, a Saturday night on Ballard Ave. Let’s be technical for a moment and admit that Stoneburner doesn’t actually have mac and cheese on their menu. They are, however, a pasta place. Stoneburner just appeared out of nowhere recently. On nice days the window-walls are open (something that takes me back to Sydney, that ambiguous indoor/outdoor space where you can sit for hours with a friend on a nice day — we need more of those — that I remember reading about in Christopher Alexander books when I was a good college student who religiously did her homework), and it is always busy. It gets good reviews, the menu looks tasty. I had a straight laced over achieving watching the clock presumably because she had papers to write or instruments to practice 19 year old with me and no idea what a good option would be for her on a Saturday night.

On a rainy afternoon several weeks ago, my roommate and I were waiting for the elevator in the hotel lobby right behind Stoneburner. She had driven us down to Ballard Ave for lunch and parked her car in the cheap garage under the hotel. While we waited, we were peeking into Stoneburner’s hotel side entrance, and a waiter approached to ask if we wanted a table. We asked if they had mac and cheese. He said they didn’t, but they had a couple pasta options that were very close to it. Tonight, with my 19 year old counterpart by my side, it seemed like Stoneburner was going to be the place for us.

I’d have preferred alcohol and heavy food, a loud joint where people are bumping into you and you can sporadically hear laughter from strangers nearby. Instead I got a place that is too nice for its own good. Overpriced, underwhelming food, pasta that must have cost $3 per, and I left hungry. Stoneburner, you get a big ‘meh’ from me. My 19 year old friend, however, thought it was pretty great. It felt a little bit like home for her, and she’s awfully homesick right now.

Conversation was awkward and interrupted often by an even more awkward couple of waitresses. This 19 year old I had with me is someone special. I met her when she was 4 years old, when I was the 19 year old. I remember that day she walked in the door with her 3 year old brother, these two little darlings with messy hair and squeaky voices and so much fear. I was something to be afraid of, to them. I had a special way of making them lose their fear and adore me, a little game I made up just for these kinds of kids.

I used to be a piano teacher. I sometimes laugh at the thought of it. I couldn’t teach today if I wanted. I’m too far removed from practice. But there was a time that I taught, and I was a damn fine teacher too, if you rate a teacher based on how much their students love and are passionate about playing music. (The secret is to buy a lot of video game sheet music and trick your students into playing because it’s fun. If they enjoy playing Nobuo Uematsu, they’ll enjoy playing Beethoven. I promise.)

It’s sort of like pin the tail on the donkey. All 4 year olds love pin the tail on the donkey. Pull the piano bench away from the piano, take your terrified 4 year old student on her first lesson in those first few moments when you have a big impression to make and only a few minutes to make it, show her where Middle C is on the piano, then have her close her eyes and start spinning her. You get a kid who starts laughing, you get a kid who learns where Middle C is, and you get a kid who starts to lose her fear and looks forward to spending time with you. Worked every time.

That little 4 year old is all grown up now and living in Seattle. I haven’t seen her in 8 or 9 years, not since I made a spur of the moment decision to quit teaching. I was too young to be so responsible and tied down. I hated to say goodbye to my kids. They were great kids. I’d known most of them for most of their lives. I saw them once a week, religiously, through it all. Every season. Every holiday. Every birthday. Year to year. I saw them once a week. They meant the world to me, and I imagine over time they grew to feel the same about me. I was the cool teacher. They told me things. They asked for advice. They showed me things. They grew up in front of me. School teachers get their kids for 9 months. I had mine for up to 10 years. I loved those kids. And this little girl and her brother were no exception. When I was living in Australia, I got an email from their mom asking if I would reconsider teaching her kids. She was willing to pay much more. It just wasn’t working out with their new teacher, she had written to me. I was touched. I was also half a world away and had to decline.

I asked her last night what she hates about Seattle. “Two things.” She answered, immediately. “Everyone is so environmentally conscious. I’m not used to it. I can’t figure out what is recycle and what is compost and what is trash and people give me dirty looks when I mess up. It’s not like that back home.”

Fair enough. It’s not like that back home and I notice it every time I’m there. I’ve been in Seattle long enough now that I get confused when I only have one trash option. What, you want me to throw all this compost and recycling in there?! Of course, my family recycled a lot growing up, so I was already on the straight and narrow to environmental friendliness. She’ll get used to it.

“And everyone is so relaxed!”

“That’s a problem?” I asked, smiled. I was suddenly starting to remember the little quirks about this girl.

“Yeah. I don’t relax.”

She doesn’t, does she. She never did. Part of me wanted to hug her, all grown up and still just like she was when she was 4 and 8 and 11. Part of me wanted to shake her. “Let it go! Enjoy life! Don’t do your homework this weekend. Have fun!” Another part of me decided the best thing was Cupcake Royale, so we walked up the street.

I took college seriously. I worked hard. I got good grades, had good juries. I worked my ass off, both in school and in my jobs. I had a full piano studio and I was working part time as a graphic designer while torturing myself with architecture school. I don’t know how I did it. (And I hadn’t even started drinking coffee yet.) If I could talk to 19 year old me, I would tell her to relax. I would tell her to go get drunk and skip that section drawing due the next day. Were they even actually grading those? I don’t think they were. I would tell her to be less cautious and more fun. I would tell her to drop half her students who weren’t working hard enough. I would tell her to ditch the graphic design job. I would tell her to show up to school dressed like she was looking for a mate instead of like she had just come off her fourth night in a row without sleep. 19 year old me would have laughed in my face and gotten back to building a chipboard model. But at least I tried for her. Go crazy, kid. Life isn’t lectures, and you’re not actually going to get the job you think you want. If you know what you want, be prepared for disappointment.

This girl, this former student of mine, she takes life entirely too seriously, and she always has. She has a stubborn determination to her that has always revolved around school. She’s headed for life as a job addict career woman who is going to wake up one day and realize she forgot to go skinny dipping or flirt with a stranger or let go of her tight, comfortable suburban upbringing long enough to see the fun in buying used and dirty clothes. She isn’t going to change. She has been bred and raised to be this way. She doesn’t like the change, and her ability to fly home at every holiday, her desire to bury her nose in her homework every weekend, is going to prevent her from enjoying this new phase of her life in all the ways she might be able to enjoy it. Her concerns over taking the bus at 5pm were humorous to me. I wanted to tell her she isn’t going to get attacked and raped walking from the bus stop to her dorm. I refrained. She isn’t ready for it. On the other hand, I wanted to tell her to embrace the change. Homesick? Embrace it. Compost? Embrace it! Weird roommate from Bellevue? Embrace it. Mom dying from cancer? Embrace it. Continually heartbroken? Embrace it. Relax and embrace what you’ve been handed. Don’t do it at Stoneburner though. Don’t embrace that bullshit. Go to Pasta Bella instead.

At Cupcake Royale we talked more about the boring things you talk about when you aren’t sure how edgy you can make conversation. She was the first one to say a bad word. “She was a bitch.” She said to me, of her younger brother’s first girlfriend. I sat back a little surprised. We do have an adult on our hands. Maybe she isn’t quite as uptight as I thought she was.  Then she asked as point blank as I’ve always known her to be, “Do you have a boyfriend?”

There it is. I was waiting for that one.

“I, uh…” I shifted in my seat and laughed a little. “No. But I date a lot of guys.”

“Well, I’m at the big zero.” She said. Straight faced. Emotionless.

“It’ll happen.”

“Everyone who wants to be in a relationship is already in a relationship.”

Try skipping your homework some weekend and going out with a group of friends, I wanted to say. That never changes, I wanted to say. It might not happen, I wanted to say. “Don’t worry. Just don’t think about it. Stop thinking about it, and that’s when it’ll happen,” I said.

“I suppose. I have this friend who texts me twice a week to tell me she’s in love with a new guy. I text her back to tell her ‘No, you’re not.'”

Ah, attachment and love. I get attached easily. Sex will do that to a person. I don’t date guys I don’t like, but it is very rare for me to start feeling that elusive love emotion. And when I do feel it, I freak out. It never seems to work out in my favor, so feeling it is a big red flag to prepare for pain and hurt and disappointment and loss. Love is a future tragedy. Love is heartbreak, again. Embrace it, Amelia. Embrace the love, embrace the loss. Embrace the fear and the unknown and the way you find yourself caring for someone so unexpectedly.

“So you date a lot of guys,” She was so analytical about this conversation, like everything else. I suppose I hoped she would loosen up as she got older, but she didn’t. I need to embrace this girl’s personality. No matter who she is or how she is, I’ll always care about her. “Is there one you really like?”

Yeah. Maybe there is. And that scares me and excites me. I can’t breathe when I don’t know, when I have no control, and right now, I have no control. I just have to trust even though trust is difficult. Embrace the fear.

I found myself checking the time often, looking for some segue out of this dinner conversation. I had a lot I wanted to do at home and she clearly wanted to get back to her dorm room and homework. It’s difficult picking up after a decade, especially when one of us went from little girl to woman. Maybe both of us. I hope I see her again, not because I look forward to conversation that doesn’t excite me or paying her portion of the tax and the entire tip because college students are clueless, but because I care about her.

I drove her back to campus. She asked if I had Washington plates on my car. I laughed. “Yes. I live here. I moved here. This is home. For now.” She asked if I knew how to get to UW. “Yep.” She told me she doesn’t know where anything is yet. I told her to explore. I told her to get familiar with the buses. I told her to give it about three months and she’d feel like she was home.

Getting lost is an adventure. So, too, perhaps is getting lost in the fear and excitement of new people. Of a new person.

I came back to a wet, cold, foggy Seattle this week. I’m surprised by how much I love this weather. I keep going out into it, getting my feet wet, the bottom of my jeans soggy, yellow leaves plastered to the sidewalks, books and coffee and the Ballard farmer’s market where all the kids and some of the adults are dressed in Halloween costumes, the sun that keeps trying to peek through the clouds, and the sudden blue skies that appear within minutes, and disappear just as quickly. I love the Pacific Northwest. I love this weather. I love my little life. I love the fear I’m feeling right now. Having this fear of the unknown is so much better than being emotionless. It means something good has happened and more good may come. Embrace this amazing fear, Amelia.

When I got back to Ballard after driving her home last night, I went to Ballard Market to get some kale caeser salad. I was starving and it hit the spot. Two bucks. It was perfect.